until today announced its DG one
graphics card for software developers
which is a laptop XE GPU except it's
strapped to a PCIe add-in card for
developers
although Intel didn't officially allow
benchmarking of its new DG 1 graphics
implementation at CES we were able to do
some framerate analysis by recording the
screen during gameplay with a high FPS
camera and then later counting the
frames in our hotel suite our news today
we'll talk about the DG 1 PCIe card XE
laptops and briefly about a foldable
screen before that this video is brought
to you by Thermal Grizzlies conduct a
not liquid metal conductor nada is what
we've used in all of our liquid metal
and dealin Thermal tests capable of
dropping TV thermals significantly and
replacing the stock thermal interface
over CPU thermals don't just allow
better over clocks but also lower noise
levels because the transfer efficiency
has increased the mix of gallium and
indium makes for a thermal conductivity
of 73 watts per meter Kelvin outclassing
traditional pastes significantly learn
more at the link in the description
below
first up Gordon from PC world and I had
a bet on the frame rate for the hands-on
demo of Intel's XE graphic solution and
it's Tiger leek laptop and I said that
destiny 2 felt like it was playing at
about 37 fps Gordon went with 35 but
then he changed his mind and went to 42
fps and then Adam their camera operator
won with 33 so Intel said we'd never be
able to figure out who won the bet since
the product will change so much before
its final launch which is likely and the
prototype that we saw would probably not
have its frame rate revealed to us that
said we ended up using some software to
count the frames and figure it out
anyway because with a Computex dinner on
the line it was worth doing the extra
effort to find the frame rate we'll
start with the DG one GPU and then move
to the brief benchmarks and hands-on
experience Intel sent photos over of its
DG 1 PCIe card for software development
which will be used by developers ramping
up to support the new Intel hardware
this is a necessary step since Intel is
starting from ground level and has no
driver development at president 4 GPUs
it's not like AMD and NVIDIA where
millions of dollars of driver
development and upwards of decades of
work
builds a foundation for the cards so
until I have to get these out to
software developers early to make sure
that the software actually works with
the card
Intel's dg1 PCIe card is what the
company is calling a software
development vehicle and these are common
they typically go out to ISPs or
independent software developers and
software vendors and they use these
devices to get the early groundwork in
for software that needs to run on the
GPU and vidiian AMD do similar things so
we have renders of the card but that's
about it no physical card was present at
the meeting we went to there was a
separate Intel meeting we couldn't make
at CES and at that one
they had a warframe demo running on dg1
there was no no reveal of the
specifications of the card and also the
settings for the game the graphics
settings were not revealed even so not a
whole lot of useful information from
that for determining performance these
types of demos are always strange for
that reason it's sort of to flag that
the product exists and that's about it
and sometimes there's a business play
here where the company isn't even going
for really any kind of consumer
attention they're going for other
companies attention and that's the case
of the foldable screen that Intel had as
well where it's more of a signal to say
hey partners in the ecosystem or in the
industry we have something that we can
work with your arm they can also do that
privately of course but this makes a bit
more noise about it so it's kind of a
weird demo because the there's not
there's not much actual information that
we can do anything with we do have some
information for other benchmark settings
though in our meeting at the Intel booth
Gordon and I approached the Intel Tiger
Lake laptop team that was representing
the XE graphics deployment and Gordon
specifically asked something along the
lines of cool demo what can we do with
it and the answer was it's an experience
at which point most media will sort of
sigh in disappointment because it's
normally code for being a hands off demo
in this instance it was sort of hands-on
and that you could pick up a controller
and play the game but there's no
information at all about what's
happening on the laptop itself so it's
fairly limited in information we were
given the option to play destiny 2 at
1080p
low settings with what we think was 100%
resolution scale and what I'm pretty
sure was a controller but we use
keyboards so not really sure on that as
for experiences it was honestly pretty
poor destiny to is not that intensive of
a game but it is a competitive shooter
and or even just any kind of FPS would
would have this be an issue too and the
latency ended up being noticeable so
input Lindsay the click to response
latency was notice leap or so it's a
good thing auto am was on but we didn't
have the the foresight to do a sneaky
latency test like we did with a sneaky
framerate test but it was still bad
there was a clear delay from input to
response simple movements could be felt
with for example a a right thumbstick
movement to look you'd push right do
nothing else the controller push right
and feel a response significantly later
was certainly not close to instant it
felt like more than 100 milliseconds and
probably approaching 200 but not sure
sure by I definitely felt like more than
100 milliseconds though it certainly
wasn't between the 25 and 80 millisecond
window that were used to with typical PC
platforms there is a bit of a
relationship between frame rate and
input latency as well so those two
things will impact each other as far as
the FPS and the latency it's given to
all credit until did emphasize that this
is not a final product and that an
updated version should improve
performance that's probably true to what
degree we're not certain obviously but
there have been even by Nvidia and AMD
game driver updates in recent history
that provided double-digit performance
increases sometimes you see as much as
23% and recent memory first specific
game with a specific card so it's
possible to get big games typically it's
not quite that large but either way
we're giving Intel a bit of the benefit
of the doubt here because it's not a
product yet that they're even willing to
show us the specs of so it's hard to
criticize in that regard but as far as
experiences and this was the whole point
to the demo it was not a good one for
framerate we were able to frame count
the specific non-combat part of the dam
that we captured with two different sets
of numbers note that you won't be able
to frame count our footage in the
Youtube upload because it's rendered
down to a lower fps than the native
capture of counting environment updates
where player animation was not updated
the numbers were higher if only counting
full frame updates that included player
animation changes the number was lowered
for our framerate updates wherein we
allowed environment updates without
changes to player animations that count
toward fps the numbers were 44 fps our
sample 146 FPS for sample 2 and 49 FPS
for sample 3 average in 46 point three
for this section of the game we were in
if you only count player animation
updates and disregard shadow and
lighting updates the numbers were in the
30s but we're not at home and unsure of
its destiny to updates the player
animation with each new frame so we're
going to give into all the benefit of
the doubt here and call this a 46 FPS
average from a very rapid show floor
benchmark with some more variables than
we'd like in it when destiny of 2 first
launched we did a whole bunch of
in-depth testing on it and this was a
while ago now it was back when the game
came out so things have changed but one
of the things that we learned and is
probably still a constant was that being
in certain areas in the game
particularly those that were combat
heavy where as you'd expect likely to
bring framerate down then in areas like
we were in for the Intel demo where we
had already eliminated the enemies in
the benchmark or in the game rather and
so we're left running around an empty
map so they might be a bit lower in
combat areas but anyway this is all kind
of hacked together on a show floor so
we'll have to revisit this once the
product actually comes out at 1080p low
sub 60 numbers which is definitely what
this was and definitely sub 50 probably
in the 40s like we're showing here but
some 60 FPS numbers are not impressive
at 1080p low with destiny to being a
shooter made things worse because it's
genuinely it's it's technically playable
but if you're competitive its unplayable
if you're not competitive its
unenjoyable so experience was not good
even with the mouse and keyboard we
suspect you'd still have issues
aiming at things and moving in a way
that is predictable so we'd like to see
more from Intel on this front in the
very least maybe hold off on the demos
don't try to make noise about a product
that is going to perform poorly in the
eyes of people who are experienced
gamers so this is a mobile GPU the mark
is lower to hit than a desktop GPU it's
supposed to be more than a normal HD
series IGP and even still we weren't
impressed with it as for the other stuff
I didn't tell sweet the company had a
foldable seventeen point seven inch
display that was pretty interesting
it has a socketable sort of keyboard on
it there's there's a sensor they
wouldn't specify what the sensor was
when we asked is that a photo sensor or
what they just said there's a lot of
ways you can do it which yes but there's
basically a sensor of some undisclosed
variety that when you put the keyboard
on the folded part of the screen I guess
it would somewhat intelligently resize
the screen so you don't have to deal
with touch issues but anyway foldable
thing looks cool just not really the
main reason we were there were therefore
DG one and for the Nook on the Nook side
of things we did see the ghost Canyon
Intel chassis it's got very good
ventilation on both sides so full credit
to Intel for that Intel apparently did
the design in house they didn't contract
it out to a case manufacturer obviously
they hire a factory to make the case but
Intel says that it made the design on
its own it's fully ventilated and it's a
small five liter box or so it can fit
about an 8-inch GPU it's going to be
some spacing issues between the Nook
module and D GPUs where thermals will
probably be a bit of a point of concern
for the the recessed NOC module I'm not
100% sure why didn't face them opposite
directions may be referred for i/o
reasons or something but the chassis
looks good
and let's probably up side of Intel
suite DG one on PCIe will exist in the
immediate future for people who are
developing software for the tiger lake
stuff and for DG one in mobile and then
we'll hear more about the the proper
discreet GPUs later although Intel did
technically call this a d GPU
it we need to obviously everyone's
waiting for the gaming parts so check
back for that whenever that happens
otherwise subscribe for more go to straw
doc here as excess net and if you want
to check out the nut coverage we have a
full teardown of the ghost Canyon box
it's genuinely pretty cool and another
cool implementation of it would be to
socket it into an existing system and
use it as a as a discreet streaming box
so there's a lot we can do with that but
patreon.com slash gamers access store
carries access not to helps out directly
thanks for watching we'll see you all
next time
[Music]